---
title: "1826 Catalogue, Page 30 - Case H"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 130
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.30"
---


**Transcription**

---

the guardian of the universe —the emblem of mercy to¬
wards those who serve thee, M. (e) the possessor of
all things in the vital form!—thou art Brahma, Vishnu,
and Mahesa! (—thou art the lord of the universe! thou
art the proper form of all things moveable and immove¬
able, the possessor of the whole ; and thus I adore thee.
Reverence be unto thee the bestower of salvation! reve¬
rence be unto thee Kesava, (g) the destroyer of the evil
spirit Kesi!—O, Damordara, (h) shew me favour; thou
art he who resteth upon the face of the milky ocean, and
who lieth on the serpent Sesha! (2) thou art Irivick¬
rama, (k) who at three strides encompassed the earth!¬
I adore thee who art celebrated by a thousand names and
under various forms, in the shape of Buddha, the god of
mercy !—be propitious, O most high god!


2. BUDDHA, in marble, fiom Rangoon.
ditto.

3. Ditto      gilt,       ditto

4. Dito       ditto.      ditto

5. KRISHNVU, as a Beggar, dito.
Ditto, as a Musician,     dito.
vide 18, p. 27.

6. BUDDHA, in Bronze,
ditto.

7. Ditto, in Wood, gilt,
ditto.

8. Dito, in Metal,
ditto.

9. Ditto, in Marble, gilt,

10. A Black Stone Image of KALI, standing on the stomach
of Siva, from Rangoon.

A Set of BELLS, from one of the Temples at Rangoon.

----

(e) OM! Sacred and mystical letters among the Hindoos, the sound or
which, if proceeding from a person of another nation, is one of the greatest
(g) Vishnu. (k) Buddha.
)The Most High God.
griefs to hear.
(k) Vishnu.
(i) A mythological Serpent, emblem of eternity.

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

{% endbackmatter %}
