---
label: cat-1826-p.25
title: 
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 125
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.25"
---

MISSIONARY MUSEUM.
25
12. SEETA, one of the terrestrial goddesses.
She is represented as a yellow woman, covered with jewels;
she was the daughter of king Junuka. She was carried
away by the giant Ravunu, which occasioned a long war;
Ravunu was at length killed, which occasioned such joy,
that the gods, Ramu, the monkeys, and the bears, all
began to dance. She became the wife of Ramu, together
with whom she is worshipped.
13. JUGUNNATHU.
This is a deified hero, whose name signifies “ Lord of the
world," he is a form of Vishnoo. The image of this god
has no legs, and only stumps of arms; the heads and eyes
are large. Krishnu, it seems, had accidentally been killed
by a hunter, who left his body to rot under a tree; his
bones, however, were collected, and kept in a box, till a
pious king was directed by Vishnoo to form the image of
Jugunnathu, and put into its belly these bones. Vishwu¬
kurmu, the architect of the gods, undertook to make the
image; but declared, that if disturbed while he was
about it, he would leave it unfinished. The king who
employed him, being impatient to see the image, went to
the spot, when the artist desisted from the work, and
left the god without hands or feet. The king was much
discouraged, but on praying to Brumha, he promised to
make the image famous in its present shape. Beumha
himself gave eyes and a soul to it. He has many temples;
one of the most famous is in Orissa.
The annual Car Festival is the most popular; the car is in
form of a tapering tower, between fifty and sixty feet
in height: it has sixteen wheels, two horses, and a coach¬
man, all of wood. The crowd draw the carriage by
means of a hawser; he is supposed to pay an annual visit
to his brother; and while the car remains empty near his
brother's temple, immense crowds flock to gaze at the
indecent pictures which are painted on it. At the end
of eight days he is drawn back again to his own temple.
Unnumbered multitudes of pilgrims, from all parts of India,
attend this festival, among whom a great mortality fre¬
quently prevails; and hundreds, perhaps thousands of
persons, diseased or distressed, have cast themselves un-
der the wheels of this ponderous car, and been crushed
to death.