---
title: "1826 Catalogue, Page 28 - Case H"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 128
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.28"
---
{% accordion '**Transcription**' %}

20. **GUNGA**,[^1] or the River GANGES.
The Hindoos not only reverence their rivers, but actually
worship them. The most extravagant things are related
respecting the purifying water of this river ; it is carried
in vessels to immense distances —every thing it touches
becomes pure ; crowds of Hindoos perform their worship
on the banks of the Ganges, and the sick are laid there,
expecting recovery from the sight of this goddess, and it
is reckoned a great calamity not to die in view of Gunga.
Some persons even drown themselves in the Ganges, not
doubting but they shall immediately ascend to heaven.

21. **LUKSHMEE**,[^2] a Goddess, one of the wives of Vishnoo,
who is continually quarrelling with SURUSWUTTEE,
his other wife.
The former is the goddess of Prosperity ; the latter the
goddess of Learning.
One of their poets says, that the troubles of Vishnoo's
family have turned him into wood. And all the Hindoos
admit that it is a great misfortune for a man to have two
wives, especially if they dwell in the same house.

A Case of **REJECTED IDOLS**[^3] from Cuddapah, in the
East Indies.

Two Silver Images of **BUDDHA**,[^4] from Rangoon.

**A Gilt**[^5] Ditto         Ditto         Ditto

**A Brass one**[^6] of       Ditto         Ditto.

A Black Stone Image of the **LINGA**,[^7] from Rangoon.

**GAADAMA**,[^8] an Incarnation of Buddha, from Rangoon.

{% endaccordion %}

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

[^1]:
[^2]:
[^3]:
[^4]:
[^5]:
[^6]:
[^7]:
[^8]:

{% endbackmatter %}


