---
title: "1826 Catalogue, Page 47 - Three Glass Cases in the Centre of the Room & Form of a Bequest"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 147
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.47"
---
{% accordion '**Transcription**' %}


PAINTINGS of the process of collecting and packing
Tea in China.

DRAWINGS of different Missionary Stations.

Ditto of Chinese Costumes.

A PORTRAIT of a beautiful Hindoostanee, painted by a
Chinese artist.

---- 

It is respectfully desired that Children may not be allowed to
touch any of the Articles.

---

Annual Subscriptions, or Donations, in aid of the Funds of this
Society, will be thankfully received by the Treasurer or Secre-
taries, at the Mission House, Austin Friars.

**FORM OF A BEQUEST.**


" Item— I do hereby give and bequeath unto the Treasurer for the
time being, of a certain voluntary Society, formed in-London in the
year 1795, entitled THE MISSIONARY SOCIETY, USUALLY CALLED THE
LONDON MISSIONARY SOCIETY, the sum of
pounds, of lawful money of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Ireland, current in Great Britain, to be paid within
months
next after my decease, out of such part only of my personal estate as
shall not consist of chattels real, upon trust to be applied towards the
carrying on the purposes of the said Society : aud I do hereby direct
and declare, that the Receipt of the Treasurer for the time being of
the said Society, for the said Legacy, shall be a sufficient discharge to
my Executors for the same.

----

London: Printed by W. Phillips, George Yard, Lombard Street.

{% endaccordion %}
{% backmatter %}

## Notes

[^1]:
[^2]:
[^3]:
[^4]:
[^5]:
[^6]:
[^7]:
[^8]:
[^9]:
[^10]:
[^11]:
[^12]:
[^13]:
[^14]:

{% endbackmatter %}

