---
label: cat-1826-p.15
title: 
layout: entry
order: 115
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.15"
---

MISSIONARE MUSEUM.
15
Centre of the Room.
The GIRAFFE, or CAMELOPARDALIS.
Shot in the Griqua Country, South Africa, by Mr. Campbell's
party, July 31, 1814.
This very peculiar animal inhabits the interior parts of
Africa, and the forests of Ethiopia. It is remarkable for
the great disproportion of height between the fore and
hind parts. The head is like that of a Stag ; the neck is
slender; the tail long, with strong hairs at the end; the
whole is of a dirty white, marked with large broad rusty
spots. It is very timid, but not swift; it runs awkwardly,
and is casily taken. It browses on trees, yet can feed on
the grass, and drinks water from the brook. Its height
is from fifteen to seventeen feet, but some have been seen
more than twenty feet. This specimen is about sixteen
feet.
The Giraffe was known to the Romans in early times. It
appears among the figures in the assemblage of castern
animals in the celebrated Prænestine Pavement, made by
the direction of Sylla, and is represented both grazing
and browsing, in its natural attitudes. It was exhibited
at Rome by the popular Casar, among other animals, in
the Circæan Games.
THEHEAD OF A LARGE HIPPOPOTAMUS, with the
tip of the Tail, and the Hoofs, from Africa, brought
by the Rev. Dr. Phillip.
On the Rails.
I. AN AFRICAN BATTLE AXE, the handle made of
the horn of the Rhinoceros.
2. A MARROOTZEE AXE, fom Kurrichane.
3. A WAR AXE, fom the Mashow, the handle as No. 1.
4. A MARROOTZEE PICK AXE, used in husbandry.
5. AN AXE, per Dr. Phillip, from Africa.
6. Ditto
per Dr. Phillip, from ditto.