---
title: "1826 Catalogue, Page 41 - Case H"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 141
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.41"
---

{% accordion '**Transcription**' %}

26. A **Ditto**,[^1] made of Composition.

27. The **MANTIS**,[^2] or WALKING LEAF,
In Zoology, is a genus of insects belonging to the order of
Hemiptera; of this genus there is a great variety of species,
called by different names, of which the Mantis Fausta,
and the Orator Mantis, or Mantis Precaria, are chiefly
noticed. Their general characters are these :—the head
is unsteady, being but slightly attached to the thorax.
which is very long. The mouth is armed with jaws, and
has its feelers filiform. The wings are four, membrana¬
ceous and convolute ; the under ones plaited or folded.
The fore legs are compressed, armed on the under side
with teeth like a saw, and terminated by a single claw.
The hind legs are smooth, and formed, in some of the
species, rather for moving slowly than for leaping. This
is thought to be one of the most singular genera in the
whole class of insects, and the imagination can hardly
conceive shapes more strange than those exhibited by
some particular species.

But the most extraordinary circumstance relative to this
insect, is the general veneration in which it is held among
uncivilized or superstitious people, so that it has obtained
the name Mantis, a Greek word signifying a Prophet, or
Soothsayer, for it was imagined that this insect, when
resting on its hinder legs, and stretching out its two fore
feet, divined, and pointed out to enquirers the way they
should take when at a loss; or, when joining together its
fore feet, and holding them up, it was engaged in prayer;
hence the common people in Languedoc, (a province of
France,) where it is very common, call it Le Prie Dieu-
as if it prayed to God; and in allusion to this notion,
Linneus gives it the name of Mantis oratoria, the praying
Mantis. Dr. Vanderkemp, in his account of Caffraria,
describing this insect, says, “ the Caffres call it Oumtoni¬
zoulou, that is, The Child of Heaven. The Hottentots
consider it almost as a deity, and offer their prayers to it,
begging that it may not destroy them,” &c. Mr. Kicherer,
when in England, frequently mentioned this custom ; and
in a Narrative which he drew up, says, “ They have no
idea whatever of the Supreme Being, consequently they
practise no kind of worship : they have, however, a super¬
stitious reverence for a little insect, known by the name
of The Creeping Leaf, a sight of which, they conceive,
indicates something fortunate, and to kill it, they suppose,
will bring a curse upon the perpetrator.

{% endaccordion %}

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

[^1]:
[^2]:

{% endbackmatter %}


