---
label: cat-1826-p.31
title: 
layout: entry
order: 131
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.31"
---

MISSIONARY MUSEUM.
31
In the front of the larger idols are several smaller ones, of
silver, brass, copper, and stone : also a curious censer, or
spoon, for incense.
These are specimens, Christian Reader, of the gods of the hea¬
then in India, worshipped by more than a hundred millions
of deluded people. These are the creatures of a corrupt
imagination, and the workmanship of men's hands they
have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they
see not ; they have ears, but they hear not; they have hands,
but they handle not; feet have they, but they walk not;
neither speak they through their throat. They that make
them are like unte them; so is every one that trusteth in
them. O Israel, trust thou in the Lord. Psalm cXv. 5—10.
Nine-tenths of the whole Hindoo population pay no con¬
scientious regard whatever to the forms of their religion,
and yet the various cruelties accompanying their super¬
stitions occasion the death of more than ten thousand
persons every year. And notwithstanding the veneration
in which some pretend to hold their gods, yet many,
especially of the poor, take the liberty of abusing them.
When it thunders awfully, respectable Hindoos say,
« Oh! the gods are giving us a bad day ;” the lower
orders say, “ The rascally gods are dying.” During a
heavy rain, a woman of respectable class frequently says,
« Let the gods perish! my clothes are all wet.” A man
of low caste says, “ These rascally gods are sending more
rain."
Ward. vol. 1. p. xc.
The VIRGIN MARY and CHILD, from Mysore, that be¬
longed to two Native Roman Catholics, who em¬
braced the Christian religion, andsent the same to the
Missionary Society.
« The people were in great consternation at the removal of
the image, and offered large sums of money for it ; one
offered twenty pagodas, another his daughter, and another
even declared he would sell his own child and procure
money enough to purchase it, if it might be retained; but
a deaf car was turned to the proposals, being aware of
the danger of making it an object of worship, and felt as
the disciples of Christ,constrained to take it away.'
Vide Missionary Chronicle for January 1826.