---
title: "1826 Catalogue, Page 19 - Case F"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 119
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.19"
---
{% accordion '**Transcription**' %}

are large and handsomely built, is very considerable.
The Gospel of St. Matthew, St. Luke, and St. John, and
the Acts ofthe Apostles, are translated, and printed, and
read by the people; and other books of Scripture are
translated, and about to be printed. The number of
adults baptized is about 6,000, and that of children 3,500.
About 4000 adults and children receive school-instruction,
and nearly Thirty native teachers are labouring in fourteen
islands where no European Missionaries are yet settled.
Behind these idols is a model of the large Church, 712 feet
long, built by Pomare, for the worship of Jehovah. In
this building, the annual meeting of the Otaheitan Auxi¬
liary Missionary Society are held, on the same days on
which the Parent Society assemble in London, when
about 400 people attend, and speeches are delivered by
the chiefs, some of whom are Deacons of the Church.

--

Over Pomare's Idols are,

Various **IDOLS**,[^1] given up by the Inhabitants of the Island
of RURUTU, on relinquishing the worship of them,
and sent to the Missionaries at Raiatea, to be trans¬
mitted to England. The rest were destroyed.
One of these, called Rootiabua, is held to be “ one of the
three sources of all things.

--

***Right Hand Division.***

***Top Shelf.***

1. **AN IDOL**[^2] from Rarotonga, name anknown.

2. **TANGAROA**,[^3] an IDOL of Maute, with its appendages.

3. **AN IDOL**[^4] from Rarotonga, name unknown.

4. **AN IDOL**[^5] from ditto, name unknown.

B2

{% endaccordion %}

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

[^1]:
[^2]:
[^3]:
[^4]:
[^5]:

{% endbackmatter %}



