---
title: "1826 Catalogue, Page 24 - Case H"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 124
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.24"
---
{% accordion '**Transcription**' %}

7. **SHIVU LINGU**,[^1] the Destroyer, has three Eyes, rides
on a Bull, his Eyes inflamed with intoxicating herbs;
he bears a strong resemblance to Bacchus.

8. **RADHA**,[^2] Mistress of Krishnu, a deified Adultress.

9. **VISHNOO**,[^3] a Black Man, with four Arms, wears yellow
garments : is reputed to have nine incarnations, a
tenth is expected ; he is sometimes the household god,
and many choose him for their guardian deity.
See the picture on the left hand wall, sent from Travancore.

10. **VISWAKARMA**,[^4] a Monkey God, who assisted Hunoo-
manu (see No. 14.) in building a bridge.

11. **GUNESHU**,[^5] in the form of a fat short man, with an
Elephant's head.

He is styled the son of Doorga, and it is said that when
Shunee and the rest of the gods went to see the child,
Shunee (Saturn), knowing that if he turned his eyes upon
it, it would be reduced to ashes, refused to look at it,
which the mother resented as an insult. For some time
he disregarded her reproofs, but at length, being irritated,
he looked upon Gunesheu, and his head was instantly
consumed. The goddess, seeing her child headless, was
overwhelmed with grief, and would have destroyed
Shunee, but Brumha prevented her, telling Shunee to
bring the head of the first animal she could find, which
happened to be an elephant; he cut off his head, and
fixed it on Guneshu's shoulders.

Doorga was but little soothed when she saw her son with
an elephant's head ; but Brumha, to pacify her, said, that
amongst the worship of all the gods, that of Guneshu
should ever have the preference. He is not only honoured
in all religious coremonies, but in almost every civil con¬
cern. When a person is leaving his house to go a journey,
he says, thou work-perfecting Guneshu, grant me
success in my journey?' at the head of every letter à
salutation is made to Guneshu; when a person begins to
read a book, he salutes Guneshu, and shopkéepers paint
his name or image over their shops, expecting from his
favour protection and success.

{% endaccordion %}

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

[^1]:
[^2]:
[^3]:
[^4]:
[^5]:

{% endbackmatter %}


