---
title: "1826 Catalogue, Page 5 - Case A"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 105
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.5"
---
**Transcription**

**Case A.**

1. THE **ZEBRA**, or WILD Ass;
With a short erect mane; the head and body striped with
brown lines downwards; the legs and thighs crossways;
tail like that of an ass; size of a common mule.
This elegant quadruped inhabits the plains of Africa ; but
on the sight of man runs into the woods and disappears.
Zebras are gregarious and very swift, but being vicious
and untameable, are useless to man.
Possibly this may be the Wild Ass mentioned in the book
of Job, chap. xxxix. 5—8.
>Who hath sent forth the wild-ass at large? 
And the reins of the wild mule who hath loosed?
Whose house I have ma de the wilderness,
And his house the salt waste.
He mocketh at the uproar of the city,
And the jargon of the driver he heedeth not ;
He traverseth the mountains, his pasturage;
And hunteth after every green shoot.<br>
Dr. Good's Translation of the Book of Job.[^1]

2. The **KOKOON**[^2] of the BOSCHUANAS.[^3] The only known
specimen in England.

In its general appearance it has the resemblance of the
Gnoo,[^4] but is of a larger size ; tail long and black, re¬
sembling that of the horse ; its mane flowing over its
shoulders, and continuing to the middle of the back ;
forehead like that of the Buffalo, covered with an osseous
excrescence, being in fact the root of the horns, which
are terminated in fine pointed extremities ; on each cheek,
a little below the eye, a spot of a circular form, an inch

{% backmatter %}

## Notes
[^8]: John Mason Good. 1812. *The Book of Job: Literally Translated from the Original Hebrew, and Restored to Its Natural Arrangement.* London: Black, Parry and Co. Leadenhall Street, pp. 460-461. Good's father and maternal grandfather were both Nonconformist ministers and he was named an ancestor, the Puritan clergyan John Mason (1654-1694).
[^9]: *Kgokong* - the term in Setswana for the Blue Wildebeest. It was scientifically described in 1823 by William John Burchell, who gave it the Latin name, *Connochaetes taurinus*, to distinguish it from the Black Wildebeest, *Connochaetes gnou*, first described in 1780 by the German zoologist Eberhard August Wilhelm von Zimmermann.
[^10]: An archaic spelling of Batswana, literally the Tswana people of central southern Africa who speak the Setswana language. The modern country of Botswana only includes some of the territory where they lived when first encountered by Europeans, much of which is now within the borders of South Africa. At this period, Europeans had only begun to approach the borders of what is now Botswana so most of these items listed in the catalogue would have been collected within what is now South Africa. 
[^11]: Also spelled Gnu and Gnou, a term seems to come from *t'gnu* a term used for the Black Wildebeest by speakers of Khoe languages. See: Nienaber GS. 1963. *Hottentots.* Pretoria: Van Schaik, p.527.
{% endbackmatter %}
