---
title: "1826 Catalogue, Page 18 - Case F"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 118
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.18"
---
{% accordion '**Transcription**' %}

For many years they appeared to labour almost in vain; yet
there was reason to believe that a few individuals, feeling
in their last moments the need of that salvation which
they had too long neglected, cast their dying eyes even
to the cross, and expired in hope of eternal life by Jesus
Christ. The Missionaries, with exemplary patience, per¬
severed in their labours for nearly fifteen years, when
they were driven from Otaheite by a civil war, and nearly
abandoned the work as hopeless; but, on the restoration
of peace, they gladly returned, at the request of King
Pomare, and with pleasure renewed their labours.

On the 18th of July, 1812, Pomare, who had always be-
haved in a friendly manner to the Missionaries, declared
his full conviction of the truth of the Gospel, as the result
of deliberate consideration—his determination to worship
Jéhovah as the only living and true God—and his desire
to make a public profession of his faith, by being bap¬
tized.

His example was soon followed by the principal chiefs and
their people, who, being convinced of idolatry, burnt their
idols, destroyed their maraes (sacred places), abandoned
human sacrifices and infant murders, forsook their abomi¬
nable impurities, and strictly observed the Lord’s day.

Pomare, in a letter to the Missionaries, dated Feb. 19, 1816,
when he sent his domestic idols to them, (those which
now appear in the central part of Case F, in the Museum)
says, “ I wish you to send those idols to Britane, for the
Missionary Society, that they may know the likeness of
the gods that Tahiti worshipped. Those were my own
idols, belonging to our family from the time of Taaroa¬
manhahune* even to Viaratoa.” The principal idol
that has red feathers is TEMEHaRo; that was Viaratod
own god; it was he who put them about the idol. If you
think proper, you may burn them all in the fire ; or, if
you like, send them to your country, for the inspection of¬
the people of Europe, that they may satisfy their curiosity,
and know Tahiti's foolish god!

Great additions have since been made to the number of idois
now in the Museum, from other islands, which have em¬
braced Christianity. The number of such islands is now
about Twenty. The number of Churches, some of which

----

Who lived some ages before.

One of the names of Pomare's father—a xealous 'advocate for the gods.

{% endaccordion %}
{% backmatter %}

## Notes

{% endbackmatter %}


