---
title: "1826 Catalogue, Page 38 - Case H"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 138
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.38"
---

{% accordion '**Transcription**' %}

Three **BONNETS**,[^1] made of Long Grass, by the Women of
Otaheite, who appear at Church in these Bonnets,
and many of them in European dresses.

The **HAT of JOHN ROBINSON**,[^2]
An American sailor, who was left alone on one of the Her¬
jests rocks, near the Marquesas Islands, where he was
wonderfully preserved upwards of two years, till he
was taken off by the ship Queen Charlotte of Sydnev.
He made this hat, that if any vessel passed in sight, he
might be noticed as a civilized person, and not a savage,
which expedient probably saved his life.


***Second Shelf.***

**SPOONS**,[^3] made of wood, by the Hottentots, each a different
pattern, and some of them curiously carved.

On the Wall, various **RINGS**[^4] of Ivory, Copper, &c. for
Ornaments, worn on the legs and arms.

>"Making the ivory rings is tedious, being cut from the
hollow part of the Elephant’s tusks; the use of the saw is
unknown; they have discovered a method of softening
the ivory, by letting it lie for some days in sour milk, by
which it becomes so soft, that it may be cut with a
knife.” One of the copper rings is for the neck : some
women wear four or five of them.
Lichtenstein's Travels, Vol. i. p. 325.

**IRON BEADS**[^5] from Kurrechane.

**PIECES of the HIDE**[^5] of the RHINOCEROS.

**NECK RINGS**,[^6] used by Chiefs’ wives of the Mantantese.
This nation is very remote in the interior of South Africa,
about 40,000 of whom left their country on a plundering
expedition, pillaging all the countries through which they

{% endaccordion %}

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

[^1]:
[^2]:
[^3]:
[^4]:
[^5]:
[^6]:

{% endbackmatter %}


