---
title: "Page 26 - Case H"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 126
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.26"
---

**Transcription**

---

14. HUNOOMANU, the Monkey God.
Has a place among the gods, as a form of Shiva ; temples to
his honour are seen, and in some places his image is wor¬
shipped daily ; he is even chosen by many as their guar¬
dian deity. He bears some resemblance to Pan.

Hunoomanu is represented as having done wonders in the
battles of Ramu, particularly his leaping across the sea
(500 miles) when employed as a spy, and forming a
bridge across another sea by throwing mountains into it.
He had the misfortune, however, at one time, to be taken
and carried before Ravunu, the king, who ordered his
tail to be set on fire ; when, leaping from house to house
he burnt the city of Lunka, where the king resided : not
being able to extinguish the fire on his tail, he was
directed by Seeta to spit upon it, and he, raising his tail
to his face for that purpose, set his face on fire. He then
complained, that when he arrived at home with such a
black face, all the other monkeys would laugh at him.
Seeta, to comfort him, assured him that all the other
monkeys should have black faces also, which on his return
home he found to be the case.

The following is a form of prayer to this monkey-god :

O! Hunoomanu! when I go eastward, do thou preserve
me! O!son of Puvunu! when I proceed southward, do
thou keep me! O! beloved son of Keshuree! when I go
westward, do thou preserve me! O! Kamungu! keep
me from danger when I go northward !? &c.

15. RAMU.
A deified monarch, the hero of a famous Hindoo poem called
the Ramayunn (translated into English by the Serampore
Missionaries). He is adored as the seventh Hindoo in¬
carnation. In one of his battles he destroyed fourteen
thousand giants. He had an army of monkeys, of which
Hunoomanu was general. Ramu, with their assistance,
tore up mountains, and by throwing them into the sea,
formed a bridge. Ramu cut off the ten heads of his
enemy Ravunu, a hundred times, but they were always
miraculously restored; he was however slain at last.
On the birth-day of this god, the Hindoo merchants begin
their new-year's accounts. Many Hindoos write his name
on the breast and forchead of a dying person, in con¬
sequence of which they believe that instead of being

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

{% endbackmatter %}
