---
label: cat-1826-p.11
title: 
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 111
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.11"
---

MISSIONARY MUSEUM.
11
A PIECE OF MATTING, made by the Natives, and used
as an article of dress. Society Islands.
A PAIR OF SHOES, worn by Mr. Ellis in mountainous
parts of the Island of Hawaii.
A GIRDLE, or SASH, worn by a Chief, from Rurutu.
PAKE, or DART, used in a Native game in the Sandwich
Islands.
An ADZE, from the Society Islands.
A PILLOW, from the Society Islands.
Over Case D.
1. Part of the HEAD of the UNICORN, or RHINOCE.
ROS, or REEM. This great and formidable animal
is supposed to be the Unicorn of the Scriptnres, Job.
XXXiX. 9—12.
« Will the unicorn be willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib?
Canst thou bind the unicorn wich his band in the furrow? or will he
harrow the vallies after thee ? Wilt thou trust him because his strength
is great? or wilt thou leave thy labour to him? Wilt thou believe him,
that he will bring home thy seed, and gather it into thy barn."
Dr. John Mason Good, on the Book of Job, has the following note on this
passage.
66
Rhinoceros. In the original (reem); by all the older trans¬
lators rendered Rhinoceros or Unicorn; but by some modern writers, Bubalus,
Bison, or Wild-Ox. There can be no doubt that Rhinoceros (the one-horned)
is the proper term ; for this animal is universally known in Arabia, by the name
Reem, to the present day.— With regard to the animal called by our Heralds
the Unicorn, and represented in armorial bearings, I doubt if ever such an
animal existed. The Reem is also called Huadee, which signifies the beast of
one horn; Aouda signifies a Mare; hence, perhaps, by an easy corruption of
names; the Aouda has been mistaken for Huaddee, and the figure of a horse
with a horn has been adopted as the figure of the Reem, in our heraldic sup¬
porters.
Jackson's Account of the Empire of Morocco, &c. chap. v.