---
title: "1826 Catalogue, Page 29 - Case H"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 129
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.29"
---

**Transcription**

---

Fourth Shelf.

1. BUDDHA, gilt, from Rangoon, a Sea Port in the Bur¬
messe Empire. The following is inscribed on a stone,
found at Budda Gaya, a town in Bengal, bearing
date 950 years from 1826 (As. Res. Vol. i. Art. 1I.)

"In the midst of a wild and dreary forest, flourishing with
trees of sweet scented flowers, and abounding in fruits and
roots, infested with lions and tigers, destitute of human
society, and frequented by the Munis (i.e. inspired sages),
resided Buddha, the author of happiness, and a portion
of Narayaná. This deity, Hari (a), who is the lord,
Harisa (b), the possessor of all, appeared in this ocean of
natural beings at the close of the Divapara and the begin¬
ning of the Kali Yug (c). He who is omnipresent, and
everlastingly to be contemplated the supreme being, the
eternal one, the Divinity worthy to be adored by the most
praise worthy of mankind, appeared here with a portion
of his divine nature.

"Once upon a time the illustrious Amare Deva (d), reno¬
vated amongst men, coming here, discovered the place of
the supreme being in the great forest. One night he had
a vision, and heard a voice saying, Name whatever boon
thou wantest. Amare Deva astonished, with due reve¬
rence replied, First give me a visitation, and then grant me
such a boon. He had another dream, and the voice said,
How can there be an apparition in the Kali yüg? The
same reward may be obtained from the sight of an image,
or from the worship of an image, as from the immediate
visitation of a deity. Having heard this, he caused an
image of the supreme spirit, Buddha, to be made; and he
worshipped it according to the law, with perfumes, in¬
censes, and the like ; and he thus glorified the name of
that supreme being, the incarnation of a portion of Vishnu.
Reverence be unto thee in the form of Buddha ! reverence
be unto thee the lord of the earth! reverence be unto
thee an incarnation of the deity, and the eternal one!
reverence be unto thee, O god, in the form of the god of
mercy! the dispeller of pain and trouble ! the lord of all
things! the deity who overcometh the sins of Kali Yug!

----

(a) A name of Vishnu. (2) Names of Buddha. (c) The degenerated or
wicked age. (d) A celebrated Philologist, one of the inspired sages.

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

{% endbackmatter %}
