---
title: "Page 20 - Case F"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 120
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.20"
---

**Transcription**

---

5. IDOLS from Metiaro, names unknown.
   
6. ROMATANE, a chief IDOL of Maute.

Middle Shelf

REJECTED IDOLS from Reiatea and Rurutu.

1. O TE IKA MEDUA; literally the PARENT FISI.
A Shark inspires the priest of this god; when he enters
the coral rocks they remove from place to place by his
power—to this god prayers are said by fishing parties
before they set off.

2. TE BUA KINA; three sons of the great god Rongo.
Tukarere is the name of the second ; Tino Kura is the
third : they are gods of the sea, to whom prayers are
offered for the safety of canoes ; also Tane, another great
god.

3. TE TURERE. An Idol belonging to the great god
Taaroa, from the district of Atineaneva; each district
makes its Idol and dedicates to the principal god, and
leaves it at the principal Marae as its representative.

4. The district of NATIPAKT’s IDOL of Taaroa, and
left at the great Marae as its representative.

5. AN IDOL af the great Taaroa (see top of the case on
the right). This god Taaroa, or according to Aitutake,
Rarotonga, and other languages Tangaroa; he is perhaps
their greatest god ; he made the heavens, earth, and all
things; human sacrifices were offered to him in the Society
Islands; at Rurutu also he is acknowledged as the greatest
of gods; at Auau, at Atin, and all the islands at which
we touched, they acknowledged the greatness of Tan-
garora.

6. NUKUNONI, an Idol of Ruatabu. Nukunoni is the
district to which it belongs; it is placed at the great
Marae as their representative, and to superintend their
affairs, and make them victorious in war.

7. Representation of RONGO, belonging to Orutanga, a
district of Aitutake. See No. 2. Every district has its
Idol of the god to which it belongs.

8. SACRED FAN, used by the priests at their sacrifices.


{% backmatter %}

## Notes

{% endbackmatter %}
