---
title: "Page 8 - Case C"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 108
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.8"
---

**Transcription**

---

Case C.

1. WHITE-FACED ANTELOPE, or PECORA PYGARGA
procured by Dr. Thom, with the consent of the Go¬
vernor of the Cape.
This beautiful animal is very rare ; grows five feet and a half
high: inhabits Africa; leaps prodigiously; flesh good;
is gregarious, the herds desolating the places through
which they pass.
THREE-STRIPED WEASEL,

2.Tail long, black at the tip ; has three black stripes on the
back: inhabits Barbary; is very destructive to Poultry.

3. RING-TAILED MAUCAUCO.
Nose black ; ears erect; face white; hair soft and fine;
tail twice as long as the body; inside of the feet and
hands black ; inhabits Madagascar; very good tempered;
has all the life of a Monkey, but is not so mischievous;
is very cleanly, and easily tamed when young.

4. EARLESS MARMOT, from Siberia,
With a cinereous face, a white line over the eye ; no ears;
often spotted with white; tail covered with long hair;
sits up like the Squirrel when it eats; is very destructive
to magazines of corn, &c. ; lays up its food for the winter
in the holes it burrows; is very irascible, and bites very
hard.

5. MONGOOZA,
Inhabits Madagascar; is very active and filthy; feeds on
fruits.

5. DAURIAN MOLE RAT,
Inhabits Dauria and Siberia; digs long burrows with his
snout and feet, and feeds on bulbous roots.

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

{% endbackmatter %}

