---
title: "Page 27 - Case H"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 127
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.27"
---

**Transcription**

---

dragged to judgment, he ascends immediately to heaven.
The mark on the forehead of his followers resembles a
trident.

16. BULURAMU, painted white, cotemporary with Krish-
nu; his image always accompanies that of Juggernaut.

17. SHIIVU, the DESTROYER.

He is represented in a variety of forms, one of which is a
bloated image, resembling that of Bacchus. He has a thou¬
sand names. He is daily worshipped, chiefly under the
form of Linga, which is to be found in innumerable tem¬
ples; the worshippers of this image are far more nume¬
rous than the worshippers of all the other gods put
together.

It is at the annual festival of this deity that certain devotees
pierce their tongues, bore their sides, swing by hooks
fastened in their backs, and perform many other horrid
ceremonies of self-torture.

18. KRISHNU.
Krishnu is one of the terrestrial gods, and said to be one of
the ten incarnations of Vishnoo : his image is that of a
black man, with a flute in his hand. He is the Hindoo
Apollo. Wonderful stories are recorded of his achieve¬
ments: when a sucking infant he destroyed a giant; at
eight years of age he took up a mountain, and held it as
an umbrella over some villagers and their cattle, during a
dreadful storm ; he destroyed a terrible serpent or hydra;
he created a number of cattle, and also of boys and girls.
The images of this lascivious and blood-stained hero are
worshipped by a great proportion of the Hindoo popula-
tion, with an enthusiasm which transforms them into the
very likeness of himself. Several festivals are held in
honour of Krishnu, some of which are in the night, ac¬
companied with the most abominable practices. Krishnu's
thefts, wars, and adulteries, are so numerous, that his
whole history seems to be one uninterrupted series of
crimes.

19. BRUMHA, a Red Man, with four faces ; the Vedas, or
holy books, are said to proceed from his four mouths.

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

{% endbackmatter %}
