---
title: "Page 12 - Over  Case D"
layout: entry
menu: false
#toc: false
order: 112
object:
  - id: "cat-1826-p.12"
---

**Transcription**

---

This huge animal was shot by Mr. Campbell's party in the
kingdom of MASHow, South Africa, May 19, 1820, about
1,200 miles northof the Cape ; the body was too unwieldy
for carriage to Cape Town. The horn is three feet in
length; behind it is a thick horny substance, apparently
designed to support it. The head measured three feet
from the mouth to the ear, and was much larger than
another Rhinoceros with the crooked horn (now placed
next to it). The smaller animal, shot at the same time,
measured eleven feet in length ; this, therefore, must have
been much larger, and so formidable, that no known
animal is able to cope with it. The horn is solid, and the
natives make handles for their battle axes from it.
This specimen excited great curiosity when Mr. Campbell
returned to Cape Town, and at St. Helena. Since it was
placed in our Museum, a drawing of it has been made,
and an Essay written by a gentleman ofthe Royal Society,
inserted in the Transactions of that Institution.*
See Campbell's Travels, Second Journey, Vol. 1. p. 293,
and No. Xv. of the Missionary Sketches.

2. Part of the HEAD of the DOUBLE-HORNED RHI-
NOCEROS,
Shot in the Mashow Country, South Africa, by Mr. Camp-
bell's party, May 1820.

3. LOWER JAW of the HIPPOPOTAMUS, or RIVER
HORSE,
Amphibious: inhabits rivers of Africa; gregarious; wanders
a few miles from the water; feeds by night on vegetables
and roots of trees; walks slowły and heavily; swims
dexterously, and walks under water, but cannot remain
long without rising to the surface to take breath; nearly
as large as the elephant ; the teeth very white, and harder

----

In the paper above referred to, read by Sir Everard Home, Bart. F.R.S.
to the Royal Society, Dec. 13, 1821, that gentleman shows that a new species
of Rhinoceros, found in the interior of Africa, bears a close resemblance to that
found in a fossil state in Siberia; of which, together with that before us, there
is an accurate engraving. In the conclusion of this paper, the writer says,
The account in the Bible of an Unicorn not to be tamed, mentioned by Job,
bears so great an affinity to this animal, that there is much reason to believe
that it is the same.

{% backmatter %}

## Notes

{% endbackmatter %}

